See INSTALL for instructions on configuring, building, and installing this
software.  See TODO for the to-do list.

Supported Platforms
-------------------

Most development work has been done on Linux with GCC, but the bindings should
work on other Unix-like platforms and with other compilers (we've heard success
stories for at least MacOS X and OpenBSD).

The Python bindings have been successfully built on Microsoft Windows using
mingw.  The other bindings may need a few build tweaks to work - contact us
via the mailing lists if you want to get them working.

Supported Languages
-------------------

Bindings for the following languages should be fully functional and ready
for real world use:

Java		Java bindings (built using JNI) contributed by Eric B. Ridge.
		See java/README for Java binding specific information.
Perl		Perl XS bindings contributed by Alex Bowley are available
		from CPAN (module Search::Xapian).
PHP		Requires PHP 4 or 5.
Python		Requires Python 2.1 or later (Python 2.0 could be made to work
		without too much work).
Tcl		Requires Tcl 8.1 or later (Tcl 8.0 could be made to work
		without too much work).
C#		Tested with Mono C# 1.0.8.

Adding support for other programming languages
----------------------------------------------

Many languages can be done using SWIG, and it's probably easier to do so
even though some languages may have better tools available just because it's
less overall work.

People have contributed XS bindings for Perl, and JNI for Java, so we may as
well keep using those, at least while they're supported for us.

What's really needed is someone interested in bindings for a particular
language who knows that language well and will be using them actively.
We can help with the Xapian and SWIG side, but without somebody who knows
the language well it's hard to produce a solid, well tested set of bindings
rather than just a token implementation...

To be worth shipping in the xapian-bindings tarball, bindings for an additional
language really need a version of the smoketest (so we can be confident that
they actually work!), and also documentation and examples along the lines of
the existing bindings (without these the bindings aren't likely to be useful to
anyone else).

These are languages which SWIG supports and which people have done some work
on producing Xapian bindings for:

Guile		rm@fabula.de has done some work on getting Guile bindings
   		working, but sadly much was lost in a disk crash.

These are the other languages which SWIG supports, but which nobody has yet
worked on producing Xapian bindings for (from http://www.swig.org/compare.html
and SWIG release notes):

Ruby		Supported by SWIG 1.3.6 onwards
Mzscheme	Supported by SWIG 1.3.6 onwards
Ocaml		Supported by SWIG 1.3.14 onwards
Pike		Supported by SWIG 1.3.14 onwards
Chicken		Supported by SWIG 1.3.18 onwards
Allegro CL	SWIG 1.3.28 added support for wrapping C++ with Allegro CL
Modula-3	Supported by SWIG 1.3.22 onwards
Lua		Supported by SWIG 1.3.26 onwards
CLISP		Supported by SWIG 1.3.26 onwards
Common Lisp with UFFI
		Supported by SWIG 1.3.26 onwards

These languages are supported by patches against reasonably recent versions
of SWIG:

Q		See http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.programming.swig/5248
		Patched version of SWIG 1.3.22 available from
		http://q-lang.sourceforge.net/

Attempts have been made to add support to SWIG for these languages, but the
latest patches are against really old versions of SWIG.  However, they may
still serve as useful inspiration if you wanted to add support to current
SWIG versions:

JavaScript	See http://www.ultravioletconsulting.com/projects/swigjs/
		(Written for SWIG 1.1 and appears to have seen no activity for
		over 5 years!)
Eiffel		See http://efsa.sourceforge.net/archive/cozzi/swigeiffel.htm
		(Written for SWIG 1.2 and appears to have seen no activity in
		over 7 years!)

It may be possible to support a language which isn't listed above, but it's
likely to be harder unless you're already familiar with the tools available
for wrapping a C++ library for use with that language.
